scripts/README.md, before:


TODO Boot to minimal nix-config that works for that host system that enables flakes


# Locally install system

Need two usb sticks:

- One for nixos live usb to be installed
- Another for connect_wifi.sh

### Boot to live usb

Should be straightforward enough, depending on your machine you can find the bootloader in the BIOS somewhere and select the usb with the nixos image which has been prepared on it. If successful it should boot to a term under `[nixos@nixos] $`.

### Use root

Dropping in to root environment makes it easier install things

``` shell
sudo -i
```

### Connect to wifi

In order to install the os proper, we must connect to the internet to get all the packages necessary. There is a script, `connect_wifi.sh` which should take care of this for you. It also prepares an ssh environment which makes it easy for users to manage the install from a more comfortable environment. 

First though, we need to mount the usb stick in order to manage it. This can be done using `udisksctl`.

``` shell
$ usdisksctl mount -b /dev/sdx1
```

The device path may be different and the output if successful will indicate a mountpoint using the users name and the device label. In my case it is `/run/media/nixos/BACKUP`.

Running the script should be straightforward:

``` shell
/path/to/usb/mount/dir/connect_wifi.sh
```

The output will ask for the wifi SSID and Password so it can find and connect to it. This will create a wifi.text file making it easy to connect again if necessary. Then it should ask for a password for the user so it is possible to ssh.

### Running os commands over ssh

### 

Jump into unstable nix to use flakes

``` shell
nix-shell -p nixUnstable
```

Install:

``` shell
nixos-install --no-root-passwd
```

# Post install
- connect wifi
- pull nix project into home dir via https
- copy /etc/nixos/hardware-configuration.nix to correct host directory
- delete all files /etc/nixos
- run:

``` shell
sudo nixos-rebuild --flake "$HOME/.nix#<HOST>" switch
```

- pull public key into keyring and check if gpg is working
- check if git is accessible and if so change project folder from https to ssh
- cleanup files, system should be functionally configured
- pull in other projects, secrets and org files

Commit message:

copying minimal config in script

scripts/README.md, after:


TODO Boot to minimal nix-config that works for that host system that enables flakes


# Locally install system

Need two usb sticks:

- One for nixos live usb to be installed
- Another for connect_wifi.sh

### Boot to live usb

Should be straightforward enough, depending on your machine you can find the bootloader in the BIOS somewhere and select the usb with the nixos image which has been prepared on it. If successful it should boot to a term under `[nixos@nixos] $`.

### Use root

Dropping in to root environment makes it easier install things

``` shell
sudo -i
```

### Connect to wifi

In order to install the os proper, we must connect to the internet to get all the packages necessary. There is a script, `connect_wifi.sh` which should take care of this for you. It also prepares an ssh environment which makes it easy for users to manage the install from a more comfortable environment. 

First though, we need to mount the usb stick in order to manage it. This can be done using `udisksctl`.

``` shell
$ usdisksctl mount -b /dev/sdx1
```

The device path may be different and the output if successful will indicate a mountpoint using the users name and the device label. In my case it is `/run/media/nixos/BACKUP`.

Running the script should be straightforward:

``` shell
/path/to/usb/mount/dir/connect_wifi.sh
```

The output will ask for the wifi SSID and Password so it can find and connect to it. This will create a wifi.text file making it easy to connect again if necessary. Then it should ask for a password for the user so it is possible to ssh.

### Bootstrapping

We need access to the install.sh script in this project so jump into a nix-shell with git for better access
``` shell
nix-shell -p git
```

Clone the repo

``` shell
git clone https://github.com/Padraic-O-Mhuiris/.nix.git
```

Edit the installation script so it specifies the correct directories. It should already be an executable so run:

``` shell
~/.nix/scripts/install.sh
```

Sometimes it may fail unexpectedly due to what was on the disks prior but a second run will sort that out

Get the machine-id which is used as a host identifier for zfs. 

``` shell
head -c 8 /etc/machine-id
```

This must then be inserted into the minimal config

``` shell
networking.hostId = "1234abcd";
```

Install:

``` shell
nixos-install --no-root-passwd
```

# Post install
- connect wifi
- pull nix project into home dir via https
- copy /etc/nixos/hardware-configuration.nix to correct host directory
- delete all files /etc/nixos
- run:

``` shell
sudo nixos-rebuild --flake "$HOME/.nix#<HOST>" switch
```

- pull public key into keyring and check if gpg is working
- check if git is accessible and if so change project folder from https to ssh
- cleanup files, system should be functionally configured
- pull in other projects, secrets and org files
